# GroundWaterPotentialZoneMapping_MCDM_Process
<br>
<b>Abstract</b>
<br>
Water is an indispensable natural resource for survival of any species in the globe. For centuries, civilization has flourished on the bank of river based on the easy availability of water. Groundwater is one of the prime sources of freshwater supply, but, its occurrence and spatial distribution are highly uneven and affected by several surface and subsurface features. Development of several geospatial tool based on the remote sensing and GIS in recent time helps immensely for delineation and management of this precious resource. A case study was conducted to find out the Ground Water Potential Zones (GWPZ) in the Bankura District of West Bengal with the aid of Multi-Criteria Decision-Making (MCDM) method. The study area covers the latitudinal extension from 22° 38’ 27” N to 23° 35’ 50” N and the
longitudinal extension from 86° 35’ 58” E to 87° 47’ 42” E. Six thematic layers concerning with topography, precipitation, geomorphology, drainage density, lineament density, and land use land cover have been employed in this study with proper ranking and weightage depending on their role in groundwater formation to identify the groundwater potential zone. The study area has been categorized into three distinct zones - Poor, Moderate, and Good. Poor groundwater potential zones constitute 24.51%, moderate groundwater potential zones constitute 68.80% and good groundwater potential zone constitutes 6.69 % of the total study area. Blocks of Bankura district, which are under poor potential zones are Saltora, Mejhia, Chatna, Gangajalghati, Barjora. Blocks which are under moderate potential zone are Bankura-I, Bankura-II, Indpur, Onda, Bishnupur, Sonamukhi, Patrasayar, Indus, Kotulpur, Joypur, Ranibandh, Raipur, Hirbandh, Taldangra, Simlapal. Blocks which are under good potential zone are Khatra and Sarenga.
Keywords: Weighted Index Overlay Analysis (WIOA), Multi-Criteria Decision-making (MCDM), Ground Water Potential Zone (GWPZ), Geohydrology.
